Drawer: allow a custom element to be focused on close (#1669)
agriculturegovau/agds-next: .changeset/silver-pigs-care.md

---
'@ag.ds-next/react': minor
---

box: Add `focusAll` prop to enable a focus ring when the element is programmatically focused.

drawer: Add `elementToFocusOnClose` to allow custom element to be focused when the drawer closes.

page-alert: Add `isHidden` prop to hide alert with CSS so that its `ref` can be passed to the drawer's `elementToFocusOnClose`. Also enable the newly added `focusAll` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.

> page-alert: Add `isHidden` prop to hide alert with CSS so that its `ref` can be passed to the drawer's `elementToFocusOnClose`. Also enable the newly added `focusAll` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
section-alert: Add `isHidden` prop to hide alert with CSS so that its `ref` can be passed to the drawer's `elementToFocusOnClose`. Also enable the newly added `focusAll` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.
```

Author: - [x] Update changeset

---
'@ag.ds-next/react': minor
---

box: Deprecate `focus` prop in favour of new `focusRingFor` prop to enable a focus ring when the element is keyboard focused (`focusRingFor="keyboard"`) and programmatically focused (`focusRingFor="all"`).

core: Add new `useFocusOnMount` hook to allow an element to be focused when it’s mounted.

drawer: Add `elementToFocusOnClose` prop to allow custom element to be focused when the drawer closes.

> page-alert: Add `focusOnMount` prop to focus the alert as soon as it's rendered to the page. Also enable the newly added `focusRingFor` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.
> 
> section-alert: Add `focusOnMount` prop to focus the alert as soon as it's rendered to the page. Also enable the newly added `focusRingFor` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.

Reviewer: 😁
```suggestion
page-alert: Add `focusOnMount` prop to focus the alert as soon as it’s rendered to the page. Also enable the newly added `focusRingFor` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.

section-alert: Add `focusOnMount` prop to focus the alert as soon as it’s rendered to the page. Also enable the newly added `focusRingFor` prop from `Box` to improve accessibility for programmatically focused alerts.
```

'@ag.ds-next/react': minor
---

> box: Deprecate `focus` prop in favour of new `focusFor` prop to enable a focus ring when the element is keyboard focused (`focusFor="keyboard"`) and programmatically focused (`focusFor="all"`).

Reviewer: Now that I've seen `focusFor` in use, do you think `focusRingFor` or `showFocusRing` are better alternatives?

Author: Maybe `focusRingFor`. Calling out the "focus ring" might be useful but no matter what you'll need to read the JSDoc to fully understand it.

Author: I wanted `programmatic` in there but it seems too long and obtuse 🤷

Reviewer: Yeah, definitely need the JSDoc to fully understand, but I think adding "Ring" will make its intention much clearer when you see it used in your apps/components

Author: Yeah, ok, I'll migrate to `focusRingFor`.

> core: Add new `useFocusOnMount` hook to allow an element to be focused when it's mounted.

Reviewer: Fixing the apostrophe now so I don't have to do it in the release notes 😁 
```suggestion
core: Add new `useFocusOnMount` hook to allow an element to be focused when it’s mounted.
```
